# Implementing CSLA Properties

In CSLA 10 properties are usually defined using the `partial` keyword, in combination with the containing partial class having the `CslaImplementProperties` attribute.

> **Note:** You can still declare CSLA properties using the older style where you do all the coding explicitly, like in CSLA 9 for example. However, the CSLA 10 code generation does that work for you, and so it is recommended to use the new approach.

## Types of Property

Properties may be read-write, read-only, private, or ignored by CSLA entirely.

### Read-write property

A read-write property has public get and set code, and is typically used in an editable root business domain class that inherits from `BusinessBase<T>`.

```csharp
public partial string Name { get; set; }
```

### Read-only property

A read-only property has public get and private set code This type of property may be used in editable root or readonly root business domain types.

```csharp
public partial string Name { get; private set; }
```

### Private property

A private property has private get and set code. This type of property is used to manage state that is internal to a business domain class, where the property value should still be available to the rules engine and should be automatically serialized as the domain object flows through the data portal.

```csharp
private partial string Name { get; set; }
```

### CSLA Ignored property

Sometimes you may want to define a property that is ignored by CSLA. It will not automatically participate in the rules engine, n-level undo, or be serialized by the data portal. To implement a property like this, use the `CslaIgnoreProperty` attribute.

```csharp
[CslaIgnoreProperty]
public string Name { get; set; }
```

An ignored property can be public or private. It is ignored by CSLA code generation. Also notice that this is not a partial property. You _can_ define your own partial properties, as long as you also define the property implementation, because the implementation isn't automatically generated by CSLA.

## Data Annotations

Properties can use the annotations attributes from `System.ComponentModel.DataAnnotations` and those annotations will be automatically incorporated into the CSLA rules engine for the type.

For example:

```csharp
[Display(Name = "Full name")]
[Required]
public partial string Name { get; set; }
```

The `Display` attribute (which supports localization) is used to create the friendly name for the property in CSLA.

The `Required` attribute indicates that the property value is required. This rule will be enforced by the CSLA rules engine in addition to any enforcement that might occur at the UI framework level.
